---
layout: "post"
title: "Farm Day 4"
categories: ""
date: "2018-11-08 19:49:36 +0100"
recipes:
  - one_day_sourdough
---

Today I again tried nearly the same recipe as [yesterday]({% post_url 2018-11-07-farm-day-3 %}), but with more flour (by using bigger cups). I also added cinnamon, sugar, and raisins to one of the resulting loaves after the bulk fermentation stage.

While forming the loaf, it was difficult to tell whether I should use flour or not. If I don't use flour, the dough sticks to the bench and makes the loaf difficult to form. But if I do, it won't stick to itself. I settled on not using flour and getting the dough off the bench cleanly using a bench scraper, which seemed to work well enough.

I added about 1/2 cup of cinnamon sugar, as well as raisins, to one of the loaves before forming it. This made the dough much stickier, which I didn't expect. I ended up adding a bit more flour to it to make it formable into a loaf. It was still quite sticky, but using the bench scraper again, I managed to create a decent loaf, and left both to proof for ~3 hours. 

I baked in the usual way and got decent results, similar to before. The raisin bread was not as sweet as I had thought it might be, but in hindsight that was to be expected --- the proportion of flour to sugar was still pretty high, and the mixing job was questionable, so perhaps there was more sugar in some parts than others. 

Unfortunately I didn't manage to get any photos of these breads before they were eaten :)
